blog: Ember v4 TypeScript Support Update (#1093)
ember-learn/ember-blog: content/ember-v4-typescript-support-update.md

---
title: Ember v4 TypeScript Support Update
authors:
  - chriskrycho

> date: 2022-01-25T00:00:00.000Z

Author: This is a tentative/projected date. The PR is huge and will need to be reviewed and merged by the DefinitelyTyped team, and that *could* be as soon as today but it could be after this projected date, too!

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2022-01-25T18:50:00.000Z
```

---
title: Ember v4 TypeScript Support Update
authors:
  - chriskrycho
date: 2022-01-25T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - '2022'
  - typescript

---

The [Typed Ember](https://github.com/typed-ember) team—[Chris Krycho (@chriskrycho)](https://github.com/chriskrycho), [Dan Freeman (@dfreeman)](https://github.com/dfreeman), and [James Davis (@jamescdavis)](https://github.com/jamescdavis)—is happy to announce that the `@types` type definition packages, maintained on [Definitely Typed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped), now have full support for Ember 4.x! This is *two major changes* with *two big benefits*.

The two major changes:

> * **All APIs which were deprecated during the 3.x cycle and removed in Ember v4.0.0 have been dropped from the types.** (Amusingly, this includes a number of things which were deprecated in 2.x and removed at 3.0, and even a few which were deprecated the 1.x era and removed at 2.0!) Additionally, a number of types representing private API have been removed, in line with our standing policy of providing types for *only* public APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **All APIs which were deprecated during the 3.x cycle and removed in Ember v4.0.0 have been dropped from the types.** This includes a number of things which were deprecated in 2.x and removed at 3.0, and even a few which were deprecated the 1.x era and removed at 2.0! Additionally, a number of types representing private API have been removed, in line with our standing policy of only providing types for only public APIs.
```

> * **The minimum supported TypeScript version is 4.4.** This aligns with the direction we expect to propose for Ember’s own TypeScript support policy, where major releases will generally adopt a recent TypeScript version as their minimum supported version, and with a support policy similar to that for browsers and Node LTS releases. (Keep your eyes open for a forthcoming RFC tackling those details!)

Reviewer: I thought "This aligns with the direction we expect to propose for Ember’s own TypeScript support policy" was hedging a bit too much. Does something like my edit still make sense?

```suggestion
* **The minimum supported TypeScript version is 4.4.** This aligns with our upcoming for Ember’s own TypeScript support policy, where major releases will generally adopt a recent TypeScript version as their minimum supported version, and with a support policy similar to that for browsers and Node LTS releases. Keep your eyes open for a forthcoming RFC tackling those details!
```

Author: ```suggestion
* **The minimum supported TypeScript version is 4.4.** This aligns with our upcoming proposal for Ember’s own TypeScript support policy, where major releases will generally adopt a recent TypeScript version as their minimum supported version, and with a support policy similar to that for browsers and Node LTS releases. (Keep your eyes open for a forthcoming RFC tackling those details!)
```

> [e-typescript]: https://discord.com/channels/480462759797063690/484421406659182603

Reviewer: I understand this link is repeated multiple times throughout the document, but I just want to make sure that our tooling understands these types of links cc @mansona

Author: FWIW, per the preview [it appears to](https://deploy-preview-1093--ember-blog.netlify.app/ember-v4-typescript-support-update)!

The two big benefits:

> 1. **If you’re a JavaScript Ember user**, your editor tooling may get a bit smarter and better invisibly: VS Code (and maybe other editors, too) can take advantage of these types to provide you with better autocomplete, docs, etc. and those will all correctly reflect Ember v4 APIs.

Reviewer: Simplified a little bit for clarity.

```suggestion
1. **If you’re a JavaScript Ember user**, your editor tooling may get a bit smarter and better. VS Code (and other editors) can take advantage of these types to provide you with better autocomplete, docs, etc. and those will correctly reflect Ember v4 APIs.
```

> 2. **If you’re a TypeScript Ember user**, you can now use v4 in your `@types` dependencies. That will give you the same benefits as JavaScript users get via the up-to-date definitions for Ember itself, but it will also provide *much* better feedback and errors in many cases, because we are now using the latest and greatest features of TypeScript for these types.

Reviewer: "but it will also provide much better feedback and errors in many cases" reads a bit strange for me. What's a better error? I don't want to get errors 😂!

Author: ```suggestion
2. **If you’re a TypeScript Ember user**, you can now use v4 in your `@types` dependencies. That will give you the same benefits as JavaScript users get via the up-to-date definitions for Ember itself, but it will also catch more errors and provide *much* better feedback in many cases, because we are now using the latest and greatest features of TypeScript for these types.
```

Note that we have *not* yet removed the v3 deprecations or updated the strictness of the Ember Data v4 types, but we *have* updated Ember Data’s types to use the same minimum TypeScript version and to be compatible with the changes made in Ember’s types. (Unfortunately, none of the Typed Ember maintainers has deep familiarity with Ember Data!) If you’d like to help get those up to date, reach out to us in [#e-typescript on the Ember Discord][e-typescript]!

## Notable changes

* The types now use `"strict": true` in their compiler options. *In general*, this will not cause you any work; instead, it means that internally the types have to be more robust, which should cause you *fewer* issues when working in strict mode yourself. However, in a few cases, it meant we caught type safety bugs during the upgrade, which may show up in changes like those listed below.

> * **Breaking:** Throughout, the types use `unknown` in many places where they previously used `any`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Breaking:** The types now use `unknown` in many places where `any` was previouly used.
```

* **Breaking:** many of the API types have been improved and many bugs fixed. This means that they are likely to reject a number of invocations which were allowed previously, but which would produce bugs at runtime, were misleading or confusing, etc.

    A few notable examples:

    * The `beforeModel` and `afterModel` hooks on `Route`s have been updated to require that you return either a `Promise` or *nothing*, since return values are otherwise ignored. If you were returning non-`Promise` values previously, you should remove those `return` statements.

    <!-- alex ignore invalid -->

>     * The `@ember/runloop` functions all now robustly check their arguments. If you were passing invalid arguments for the callbacks, the compiler will  now catch that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The `@ember/runloop` functions now robustly check their arguments. If you were passing invalid arguments for the callbacks, the compiler will  now catch that.
```

<!-- alex ignore just -->

> * **Breaking:** The `TestContext` for the callbacks used in `module`, `beforeEach`, `afterEach`, `test`, etc. has moved from `ember-test-helpers` to `@ember/test-helpers`. Having nearly everything be in `@ember/test-helpers` but *not* `TestContext` has been a persistent source of confusion over the years, and was just a bit of historical baggage left over from before `@ember/test-helpers` existed. (If [RFC #0785](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/785) is merged, we will also be able to move away from using the `TestContext` at all!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Breaking:** The `TestContext` for the callbacks used in `module`, `beforeEach`, `afterEach`, `test`, etc. has moved from `ember-test-helpers` to `@ember/test-helpers`. Having nearly everything be in `@ember/test-helpers` but *not* `TestContext` has been a persistent source of confusion over the years, and was just a bit of historical baggage left over from before `@ember/test-helpers` existed. If [RFC #0785](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/785) is merged, we will also be able to move away from using the `TestContext` at all!
```

## Upgrading

> To upgrade to using these types:

Reviewer: This reads funny, I thought there were missing words at first 😅 I don't really have a good suggestion though.

```suggestion
To use these types, follow these upgrade steps:
```

?

    * Upgrade all `@types/ember__*` *except* `@types/ember__string` and `@types/ember__test-helpers` to `"~4.0"`.

    * Upgrade `@types/ember-data__*` to `"~4.0"`.

5. **Update related types packages.** Some `@ember/*` packages are versioned separately from the packages in `ember-source` and so need their own updates:

    * Update `@types/ember__string` to `"~3.0"`.

    * Update `@ember/test-helpers` to `"~2.6"`. **This will not compile until you complete step 6 below.**

6. **Update testing infrastructure.** While these packages are technically independent of the Ember major version, coordinating this particular upgrade required updating them in parallel.

    * Upgrade to `ember-qunit@^5` and `@types/ember-qunit@^5`.

    * Anywhere you have imported `TestContext` from `ember-test-helpers`, replace it with `import { type TestContext } from '@ember/test-helpers';`. You will likely be able to merge this with existing imports from `@ember/test-helpers`.

    * Remove all references to `ember-test-helpers` from your project, and remove `@types/ember-test-helpers` from your dependencies.

Once everything is compiling again, you will be good to go!

## What if I get stuck?

> You may hit interesting challenges in dealing with the improved type strictness in places where your code relied on the loose types (or the erroneous types!) before. If you are having a hard time, please reach out in [#e-typescript on Discord][e-typescript] or [start a Discussion on the ember-cli-typescript-repo](https://github.com/typed-ember/ember-cli-typescript/discussions). The Typed Ember team is happy to help, and many other people in the community are as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may hit interesting challenges in dealing with the improved type strictness in places where your code relied on the loose (or erroneous!) types before. If you are having a hard time, please reach out in [#e-typescript on Discord][e-typescript] or [start a Discussion on the ember-cli-typescript-repo](https://github.com/typed-ember/ember-cli-typescript/discussions). The Typed Ember team is happy to help, and many other people in the community are as well.
```

> Also, while we’ve done our very best to make this totally bug-free , it’s entirely possible that we missed something or made a mistake! Please feel free to check in with us [on Discord][e-typescript] or to [file a bug](https://github.com/typed-ember/ember-cli-typescript/issues). We encourage you to check with us first, though: in many cases things which seem like bugs are actually the type system catching errors the previous types couldn’t catch!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, while we’ve done our very best to make this totally bug-free, it’s entirely possible that we missed something or made a mistake! Please feel free to check in with us [on Discord][e-typescript] or to [file a bug](https://github.com/typed-ember/ember-cli-typescript/issues). We encourage you to check with us first, though: in many cases things which seem like bugs are actually the type system catching errors the previous types couldn’t catch!
```

## The future

> We hope (and fully expect!) this to be the last major release of Ember’s types on DefinitelyTyped. During the 4.x series, we aim to finish the work to [officially support TypeScript](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/724). That will make it much easier for TypeScript users (and maintainers!) to deal with both major and minor updates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We hope (and fully expect!) this to be the last major release of Ember’s types on DefinitelyTyped. During the 4.x series, we aim to finish the work to [officially support TypeScript](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/pull/724). That will make it much easier for TypeScript users and maintainers to deal with both major and minor updates:
```

* Deprecations will automatically be present in both types and run-time code, and they will be removed right alongside runtime changes when prepping for a major release.

* The design of deprecations or changes will include smooth migration paths for types as well as for the runtime behavior of the app.

* More generally, having types as first-class parts of every design discussion means that new APIs will be TypeScript-friendly automatically. (Many older Ember APIs are *very* unfriendly to TypeScript!)

* <!-- alex ignore just --> The supported TypeScript versions will be documented clearly, just like with Node and browsers, making it easier for you to know what you should do to stay up to date.

* Breaking changes in one package will not necessarily cause breaking changes in other packages. The updates to the test infrastructure types, for example, will not breaking in the future!

> And as always, those benefits will extend to *even more* of our just-JavaScript users, because many more editors take advantage of types which ship natively with packages than implicitly take advantage of the types from DefinitelyTyped.

Reviewer: native JavaScript? vanilla JavaScript? platform JavaScript :trollface:?

```suggestion
And as always, those benefits will extend to *even more* of our JavaScript users, because many more editors take advantage of types which ship natively with packages than implicitly take advantage of the types from DefinitelyTyped.
```

---
title: Ember v4 TypeScript Support Update
authors:
  - chris-krycho
date: 2022-01-25T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - '2022'
  - typescript

---

> The [Typed Ember](https://github.com/typed-ember) team—[Chris Krycho (@chriskrycho)](https://github.com/chriskrycho), [Dan Freeman (@dfreeman)](https://github.com/dfreeman), and [James Davis (@jamescdavis)](https://github.com/jamescdavis)—is happy to announce that the `@types` type definition packages, maintained on [Definitely Typed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped), now have full support for Ember 4.x! This is *two major changes* with *two big benefits*.

Reviewer 2: Optional - could be nice to add a sentence or two describing this milestone in terms that speak to to non-TypeScript devs.

Reviewer 2: Similarly, a prominent link in the intro would be cool for “here’s a resource if you want to start using TypeScript in your Ember app today. Using Typescript is optional but it gets you XYZ”

Author: ```suggestion
The [Typed Ember](https://github.com/typed-ember) team—[Chris Krycho (@chriskrycho)](https://github.com/chriskrycho), [Dan Freeman (@dfreeman)](https://github.com/dfreeman), and [James Davis (@jamescdavis)](https://github.com/jamescdavis)—is happy to announce that the `@types` type definition packages, maintained on [Definitely Typed](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped), now have full support for Ember 4.x!

[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org) is "JavaScript with syntax for types.… a strongly typed programming language that builds on JavaScript, giving you better tooling at any scale." Using Ember will never require using TypeScript, but we aim to provide a best-in-class experience of using TypeScript, with benefits for JavaScript users too. Want to try it out? Follow [the docs](https://docs.ember-cli-typescript.com) for [ember-cli-typescript](https://github.com/typed-ember/ember-cli-typescript).

This update for Ember v4 types brings *two major changes* with *two big benefits*.
```

The two major changes:

> * **All APIs which were deprecated during the 3.x cycle and removed in Ember v4.0.0 have been dropped from the types.** (Amusingly, this includes a number of things which were deprecated in 2.x and removed at 3.0, and even a few which were deprecated the 1.x era and removed at 2.0!) Additionally, a number of types representing private API have been removed, in line with our standing policy of providing types for *only* public APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
* **All APIs which were deprecated during the 3.x cycle and removed in Ember v4.0.0 have been dropped from the types.** Amusingly, this includes a number of things which were deprecated in 2.x and removed at 3.0, and even a few which were deprecated the 1.x era and removed at 2.0! Additionally, a number of types representing private API have been removed, in line with our standing policy of providing types for only public APIs.
```
